---
title: TDS Content Directory
last_updated: 2020-05-08
sidebar: tdsTutorial_sidebar
toc: false
permalink: tds_content_directory.html
---
This section examines the directory structure and files found in the TDS Content directory.

{%include note.html content="
This section assumes you have [installed the JDK and Tomcat Servlet Container](install_java_tomcat.html) and have successfully [deployed the TDS](deploying_the_tds.html).
" %}

## TDS `Content` Directory Location

As mentioned in the [Deploying the TDS](deploying_the_tds.html#creation-of-tds-content_root) section of this tutorial, the TDS `content` (a.k.a `$CONTENT_ROOT`) is a directory created by the TDS the first time it is deployed (or any time the directory is empty).

All THREDDS Data Server configuration information is stored under the TDS `content` directory.
The location of the directory is controlled by the `tds.content.root.path` Java system property which is set in the [$TOMCAT_HOME/bin/setenv.sh](running_tomcat.html#setting-java_home-java_opts-catalina_home-catalina_base-and-content_root) file.

**There is no default location - `tds.content.root.path` must be set or the TDS will not start.**

{%include note.html content="
Please see the [Running Tomcat](running_tomcat.html#setting-java_home-java_opts-catalina_home-catalina_base-and-content_root) page of this tutorial for information on how to set the TDS `content` location.
" %}

## Importance Of The TDS `Content` Directory

Please keep in mind the following about this important directory:

* Once created the TDS `content` directory is persisted even when a TDS installation is upgraded or re-deployed.  Therefore, we recommend locating it somewhere separate from `$TOMCAT_HOME` on your file system that will be persisted.
* All your configuration, modifications, and additions should be made in this directory.
* Do NOT place files containing passwords or anything else with security issues in this directory.
* Typically, you will only be adding and modifying catalogs and configuration files in `content`.

## TDS `content/thredds` Directory Structure

The TDS `content` directory (`/data/content` in this case) contains a `thredds` subdirectory:

~~~bash
# cd /data/content/
# ls -l

total 0
drwxr-x---  15 oxelson  staff  480 May  8 12:08 thredds
~~~

Examine the TDS `content/thredds` directory structure by doing a long listing of it:
  
~~~bash
# cd /data/content/thredds
# ls -l

total 80
drwxr-x---   8 oxelson  staff   256 May  6 12:05 cache
-rw-r-----   1 oxelson  staff  2259 May  6 15:33 catalog.xml
-rw-r-----   1 oxelson  staff  2608 May  6 12:05 enhancedCatalog.xml
drwxr-x---  11 oxelson  staff   352 May  8 12:06 logs
drwxr-x---   3 oxelson  staff    96 May  6 12:05 notebooks
drwxr-x---   3 oxelson  staff    96 May  6 12:05 public
drwxr-x---   4 oxelson  staff   128 May  8 12:08 state
drwxr-x---   3 oxelson  staff    96 May  6 12:05 templates
-rw-r-----   1 oxelson  staff  8942 May  6 15:56 threddsConfig.xml
-rw-r-----   1 oxelson  staff  2797 May  6 12:05 wmsConfig.xml
~~~

Familiarize yourself with these important files directories in `tds.content.root.path/thredds/`:


#### `catalog.xml` 
* The main TDS configuration catalog (root catalog for TDS configuration)


#### `enhancedCatalog.xml` 
* an example catalog [Note: It is referenced from catalog.xml.]


#### `threddsConfig.xml` 
* A configuration file for allowing non-default services, configuring caching, etc.

#### `logs/`
* Contains log files generated by the TDS, including: 
  * `catalogInit.log` - A log file for messages generated while reading TDS configuration catalogs during TDS initialization and reinitialization.
  * `threddsServlet.log` - Contains log messages about individual TDS requests, including any error messages. Useful for debugging problems.  
     
#### `cache/` 
* Contains various cache sub-directories, including:
  * `agg/`
  * `cdm/`
  * `collection/`
  * `ehcache/`
  * `ncss/`
  * `wcs/`
     
#### `templates/`
* `tdsTemplateFragments.html` - user-supplied Thymeleaf HTML templates (see [Customizing TDS](customizing_tds_look_and_feel.html#thymeleaf-templates) for details).



## Next Step

Next, we'll examine the [Tomcat Manager Application](tomcat_manager_app.html) and grant ourselves access to it in preparation for accessing restricted parts of the TDS.
